# Sahne-Karnal-RTOS-Edition
Sahne Karnal RTOS is the RTOS version of Sahne Karnal, a standalone operating system kernel developed by Sahne Dünya! Sahne Karnal is a standalone operating system kernel developed by Sahne Dünya. The Standard Edition is aimed at personal mobile and personal desktop devices, while the RTOS version is specifically targeted at hard real-time systems and resource-constrained embedded systems. Sahne Dünya aims to be a part of the embedded and RTOS world, not just for personal devices! Furthermore, the RTOS version uses a Pure NanoKernel architecture instead of an Extended Microkernel. The Pure NanoKernel architecture is more minimal than the Pure MicroKernel, but the differences are quite minor, but I can't say the same for the Extended MicroKernel! The Standard Edition and the RTOS versions are vastly different! In the Standard Edition, most of the system managers are dynamic, a small portion are static, but the RTOS version has a completely static system manager. When I say system manager, for example (Memory, I/O, Interrupts, etc.), the Standard Edition needed a built-in API called Karnal64 to access system calls. Karnal64 is an API that communicates with the API that carries the system calls, and also has kernelcalls used in kernel components. However, in the RTOS version, there are direct system calls, but the system call API used is called Searl64, not Sahne64, because it requires real-time system calls! Also, the system calls present in Sahne64 are not present in Searl64, and the APIs present in Searl64 are not present in Sahne64! Yes, you heard right, both were written from scratch and both have different structures, but the common feature is that neither is Unix! In other words, both are unique platforms!
